# Huffman
Author: Spencer Fletcher
### Project Goal
The goal of this project was to create a Java implementation of Huffman compression, which is the compression method used by JPEGs, ZIP files, and many other data compression softwares. For a more detailed breakdown of how the algorithm works, go [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huffman_coding). 
### Running the File
To encode a file, enter in the command line `java HuffmanSubmit -e [input file] [output file] [frequency file]` where input file is the file that is being compressed, output file is where to output the compressed file, and frequency file is where to store the compressed versions of bytes taken from the original file. To decode a file, enter in the command line `java HuffmanSubmit -d [input file] [output file] [frequency file]` where input file is the previously compressed file, output file is where to output the decompressed file, and frequency file is where the compressed versions of bytes taken from the original file have been stored. 
### Technical Explanation of Project
This project compressed files using the Huffman algorithm. The Huffman algorithm finds the frequency of bytes in a file, and then creates bit codes based on the frequency of the item, with higher frequency items having shorter bitcodes, and lower frequency items having longer bitcodes. For example, if byte 01010101 occured 300 times, it might have a code like 101, while byte 01010111, occurring 3 times, might have a code like 1000111. This allows for higher frequency items to take up less space in the compressed file, however it does require a reference file to "unzip". The Huffman algorithm creates these codes using a binary tree. To unzip, a similar process is done in reverse. The binary tree created by the Huffman compression is looped through, using the bits from the file to decide whether to go left or right. Once a leaf is reached, the tree has reached an original value, so the original value is added to the decoded file. This continues until the entire file is completely decoded.
